Alright, I've loaded up the starter
project. If we click run, we can see this
tile set. UhYou know, I
really like this bottom square. Let's
do that. So zero and three.
Looks like it's index
12. So what we're
going to do is I'm going to show you how
to draw just that square. So we're going
to remove this and
actually we're going to make a camera so
that we can pan.
this grid world around. So let x off
equals zero, let y off equals zero. And
then we'll set up some tile
parameters, const tile size.
We're going to set it to 128. That's what
this particular tile set uses.
And then we are going to repeat forever.
Function forever.
Uh Clear the screen, obviously.
uh So that's going to be drawn up
background. We're going to do sky
blue. Let's do sky blue, nice sky
color. And then
draw tiles. We're going to go for let
x equals negative tile
size plus
x off modulo
the tile size, which is 128. That's
basically just going to set the x to be
one tile off the screen to the left, then
x less than 800, that's the screen to the
right, x plus equals tileSize.
And then we're going to do the exact same
thing for the y, tileSize
plus y off this time, modulo
tileSize, then y less than
800, and then y plus
equals tileSize.
So just like that. Then we're going to
let rng equal 12. rng is going to
be the tile that we draw. So we're going
to draw the tile there just
on the screen using a drawTile
function. Now we're going to
make this drawTile function. It's going
to have the spidx, the
tile index, and then
the x and y. So we're going to set
this to be plus 128 times the
spidx modulo
4, and then 128 times
math.floor spidx
divided by 4, because it
has a row of 4 there. And then
modulo 4 again, because it's a
4 by 4 grid, as you can see. Then 128,
128, because that's the tile size
in the sprite sheet, xy,
and 128, 128,
just like that. Now when we click run, we
are greeted with this lovely grid of that
particular tile we chose at thebeginning.
Now we can actually adjust this grid
by adjusting the x off and y
off variables. Uh I think
it'd be kind of fun if we use the user's
input to pan the
camera around. So let's do that.
So we're going to go
if
keyboard.includes
arrow left
then xoff minus
equals five else if
keyboard.includes
arrow right
x off plus equals five,
and if
keyboard.includes
arrow up,
uh and then y off
minus equals five, and finally
else if keyboard.includes arrow
down,
Y off plus equals five.
Now, when we click run, we can
pan around the camera using the arrow
keys.
In the next video, we will start
creating more intricate
tile worlds.